>> Scott Moss: So, lets get into testing.
So we all did testing yesterday, right?
Did anyone actually go home and
do testing last night?
No, I didn't think so.
Okay, testing, okay so
I'm like a test crazy person.
I actually enjoy writing tests,
I don't know why.
I just do, it just feels good.
Writing tests [LAUGH] I don't know
why I just like seeing that green,
it's my favorite color.
So testing with graphql is way easier
than testing what we did yesterday and
you're gonna see why.
Like it's so easy to write tasks
in graphql it's ridiculous.
And the reason it is, one,
we don't have to run a server.
We just don't have to run a server at all.
You're probably thinking like,
well, it's hooked up to the server,
how do we do this?
We don't, we don't have to run a server.
We don't even have to go
through express at all.
We don't even have to touch
Express to test our GraphQL.
Even though GraphQL's hooked
up to Express right now,
we don't even have to look at Express,
so have nothing to do with Express.
In fact it has nothing
to do with the node.
It has nothing to do with anything.
It's literally, you're going to see
it has nothing to do with a server.
It has nothing to do with express.
We're just going to be
testing pure graph QO and
you can pretty much do that in any
environment that can execute our code.
We can literally execute
graph QO anywhere.
In fact there's a package
called graph QO anywhere and
allows you to use graph QO anywhere.
Like you can use GraphQL to make CSS or
React components, or whatever you want.
They just take that query language and
spit out whatever you want, right,
depending on what template you give it.
So we're gonna use GraphQL to
execute inside of our tests.
We can execute query and inspect
the response and the DB activity so
what we'll do it run a query against
the schemes on some variables.
We'll look at the response
that we get back and
then we'll also look in the database
to try to see what happened.
If we expect it to happen.
So, that would be our
strategy with testing.
So let's look at some of the tests
here and you can check out lesson 14.
[NOISE] And if you go down to
the test folder in the helper's file,
you should see a nice
little function here.
And this is literally the only function
we need to write all the test for
our graph cue out and basically what it is
using is the Graph QL JS implementation.
This is the implementation
straight from Facebook.
When Facebook created Graph QL,
they, Graph QL was just a speck.
It wasn't a code, it wasn't a language,
it was just a speck.
And then they made the JavaScript
version of it, the implementation of it.
Facebook made it, this is that version.
This is pretty much what everything
in JavaScript that use GraphQL is
based off on.
It's basically the compiler for
GraphQL, if you will.
It has the AST, the rules,
everything's pretty much based off this.
We're gonna use it raw, so Apollo uses
this internally to run our queries.
We're just gonna use this to run our tests
for not have the power left flexibility.
So what we can do, using that graph to our
query, so this one function right here,
we can use to actually go ahead and
execute all of our text.
It's gonna be using the graph QO library,
that Facebook implemented.
It's just a raw library that every
implementation of graph QO uses
underneath it.
So we're gonna use it for the flexibility.
And basically all we have to
do is we pass in the schema
which is a combination of resolvers and
the type definitions, right?
Those two combined as a schema.
The query is the thing that we write
in graphical that we're asking for,
so that's either query or
mutation, it's just a query.
This object right here is empty
because what it's gonna be
is gonna be the root value,
which is nothing.
We're not passing a root value for test.
It's just like in every
single resolver we have,
the root value I'm place holding
with an underscore, it's nothing.
This next object is gonna be the context.
I'm passing the user down as the context.
And in the last argument is gonna
be the variables for mutations.
So with this one function that returned
our promise we can execute our entire
graph kill schema without a server or
anything we just run it like coat.
It returns our promise and
it resolves the values.
Pretty simple, right?
So I just imported the schema I have
GraphQL here and for your test,
all you gotta do is patch in a query,
some variables associated with it, and
what user you're signed in as.
And it'll execute your query,
and you can check it out.
So I wrote some tests,
we can go check them out on user spec.
And you can see right here, if you
haven't written tests on the back end,
it's a good habit to have stateless test,
as in they don't rely on previous
states of previous tests.
By saying that, I'm dropping the data
base every time I write a test.
Every time I'm making a search
I drop the data base.
I don't want any data left over
from the old test to be there
because it might affect this next test.
So that's why it's a good way to just drop
the data base every single time you do,
One of these it's.
And mocha, whenever you do before each
of after each it's basically saying
before each it after each it do this.
So that's what I'm doing here.
So before each I'm dropping a database and
I'm creating a user,
I'm assigning it to this closure so
i can have access to it down here.
And then just to be safe after
each I'm also just gonna drop it.
So always have a clean database
when I come inside of this.
So our first one is it should get me.
We have a query called get me.
And you can see I'm just using that
function run query that I just showed you.
And I'm just going to run the query,
I'm going to pass the query that I want,
it's just a string.
It's literally just a string.
The same thing you would
pass in graphical.
It's just a string.
The second argument is variables.
I don't have any variables, this doesn't
take any variables so I don't need any.
And the last one is the user.
And you can see this one is the user.
And as you can see I get back the same
thing I would get in ground and
I just make some assertions on it.
That's our test.
That's how simple it is.
We didn't talk to express, we didn't talk
to a server, we didn't fire up a port.
Don't even need the Internet
we just run this test.
Pretty clean.
And it's just more of the same
heres an example of a mutation.
It's just a string you mutate I'm
testing to see if I can update me.
Here's an example of variables.
There's a variable called
input who's type is this.
I'm updating it You can see I pass in
this input variable as well or the user.
And then I just run some tests.
>> Scott Moss: So if you go ahead and
run this right now,
I'm just gonna put a dot only here.
And run the rn test.
>> Scott Moss: They both pass so,
what I want you all to do is
we're gonna work on this for
30 minutes and I wanna see how
many test you can write for
the crazy mutations that we have,
for the song and playlist model.
And you can write all test for
all crazy mutations that's pretty dope but
just do as much as you can
using this exact formula.
Everything that you need is right
here in this user spec file.
Everything you need.
You expect from chai so
do your assertions.
You have run Query to actually execute it.
Then you have dropDb to drop the database.
You could even just
literally just copy this and
change all the things that you need.
But I want you to write as many tests
as you can inside the song spec JS and
the playlist spec JS.
Test the mutations,
test the queries, making sure
you're getting back what you need.
Making sure you know you can resolve all
those, properties and stuff like that.